("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
(gasping)
(screaming)
- [Narrator] On the first
day that Ronja and Birk
moved into the forest,
they worked constantly
and the time flew by.
(bouncy orchestral music)
That night, Ronja
thought of Mattis' fort
and she missed it so much
her heart was in pain.
She dreamt that Mattis
was sitting alone,
crying a pool of tears.
(lively flute and
orchestral music)
(birds chirping)
(lively music)
(grunting hums)
(laughing)
- Come on, Birk, we
need to haul the fish in
before the cuckoos
start callin'.
(lively orchestral music)
- How can you be this lively
at such an early hour?
I'm sure we don't catch any.
Bet the fish are
still asleep as well.
(laughing)
- There's so much
salmon in our river.
It would be very odd if we
hadn't caught at least one
in our net, let's go.
Come on, hurry up!
- I'll tell you what's odd.
You skippin' around like that.
You'll go head
first into the river
and get caught in our net.
(lively orchestral
and flute music)
- I call this spring skipping.
- Spring skipping, ay?
That was a well worn path,
almost like it was made
for spring skipping.
Who do you think
first trot it down?
- Perhaps it was Mattis.
- Ugh.
- Back when he was living
in the bear's cave.
He really loves salmon.
He always has,
although that's why...
- Ronja.
(splashing)
(laughs)
(delightful gasp)
(birds chirping)
(animals chattering)
Sister mine, you're certainly
not gonna die of hunger.
I promise you that.
- Well, not until the winter.
(groaning)
But there's no use worrying
about something so far away.
Oh.
Birk, you're bleeding.
- I was trimming the
birch and the ax slipped.
It's nothing to worry about.
To heal well, the wound
has to finish bleedin' out,
and then you know it's
clean and will heal itself.
- Don't be silly.
A killer bear might be following
the scent of your blood.
(laughing)
- [Birk] Then I'd take
care of 'em with my spear.
Yes I would.
- You know, Lovis usually...
Lovis usually puts dried moss
on the wound to
stop the bleeding.
I think I better get us
a good supply of moss.
Who knows when you're
plannin' on cuttin' yourself
on the leg again?
(laughing)
(strumming music)
- [Birk] Good point, we
might need a lot of moss.
(lively, bouncy music)
(laughs)
(lively music)
(clanking)
(scraping)
(lively music)
(flames crackling)
(sighing)
(flowing water)
- [Narrator] By the third
day, Ronja was asking.
- Birk, which do
you think is worse?
Eating salmon every
day, every mealtime,
or blisters all over your hands?
- Hmm, I'd say one is
as bad as the other.
(grumbles)
But I tell ya, there
is one thing I know,
we need a chisel.
I can't believe I didn't
think about bringing one.
Makin' this bowl was
impossible without a chisel.
Now, I need to sharpen
the knife yet again.
Can I have the knife, Ronja?
- What now?
I thought you had the knife.
- No, you were usin' it.
You had it last.
Now hand it over.
- I will not, because
you had it last.
Didn't you hear me?
What's wrong with you?
- Come on, what've
you done with it then?
- What have you
done with it then?!
(groaning)
If you remember,
brother, you had it last!
- That's a stupid lie.
(groaning)
I thought I told you how
important that knife is.
Without it, we can't
manage here in the woods.
- Well then, you should've
taken better care of it.
Birk, you know what you are?
You're a mean devil
blamin' others
when it's you at fault!
(stomping)
(huffing groans)
- So...
I see that you're back
again to your old ways.
Right back to the old Ronja,
the robber's daughter.
And I'm supposed to
live in here with you?
- So don't you worry
about that, Borka robber.
Why don't you live
here all by yourself
with your precious little
knife if you can find it,
which you will, because for
the last time, you lost it!
(crying)
- I hope the harpies
take you away!
You're actin' just like them.
You'll be quite at home!
(huffing groans)
- [Ronja Voiceover] I
think I better get us
a good supply of moss.
Who knows when you're
plannin' on cuttin' yourself
on the leg again?
- Use moss, stupid!
(fluttering)
(gasps)
Hmm.
(bouncy drumming)
(playful, bouncy music)
(birds chirping)
(scraping)
- Why don't you live
here all by yourself?
- Where does she think
she's going to live then?
As far as I care, she
could go back to wherever
it is she wants to go, but
she's not welcome in this cave.
Hmm.
If she were to come
back, sorry and pleading,
then I would tell her,
I'm sorry,
but your apology's not welcome.
It's too late for you.
(gasps)
(thudding)
It's not as if I drove her out.
(sniffling breaths)
(lively chiming music)
(flowing water)
(lively music)
(birds squawking)
(lively chiming music)
- I'm coming, wait!
- Ronja!
- Let me go!
(lively chiming music)
- Well, I don't know you.
What happened?
Were you bitten by a fox?
(sobs) Please don't
ever leave me!
Please do not ever leave!
And I'll help you.
My brother won't starve.
(wind blowing)
(grunting gasp)
(panting)
(birds squawking)
(panting breaths)
(lively flute music)
- Ronja!
(lively, somber flute music)
Ronja!
(panting breaths)
(lively flute and
strumming music)
Of course, I really
should've known.
She may be sister mine, but
he'll always be her father.
(horse neighing)
Oh.
(neighing)
(sputtering)
Poor thing.
(gasps)
- Birk.
- Ronja.
- Did you see the bear?
He just attacked this poor
horse and killed her foal.
(crying)
(sputtering)
(gasps)
We need the moss.
Can you go and get it?
- Yes, although, with a
bear somewhere nearby,
come on, it's not safe.
I can't leave you alone.
- Just go, now!
(sputtering)
I must stay here
and comfort her.
We need to look after
her and help her recover.
(bird squawking)
We need to get the
moss right now!
- Oh, right.
(panting breaths)
(bouncy, lively music)
- What are they
doing with horse?
For what?
- [Two Rumphobs] What
for are they doing?
(elated gasp)
- Rumphobs.
That means we're safe now.
Bears can't stand the
smell of shadow-folk.
- No wonder she's so calm.
It's better down here.
(laughing)
(lively music)
- What for are
they human smiling?
- [Both] What for
are they smiling?
(lively orchestral music)
(giggling)
(birds chirping)
- Oh.
(laughs)
(gasps)
- The bleeding stopped.
And the moss is dry too.
Go on, if you keep drinking,
you'll feel much better soon.
(gulping)
- Until her wound's all
healed, let's keep her
here by the pond.
She'll be safe.
No bears'll come here.
- Don't grieve too
much, sweet mom.
I'm sure that by
the next springtime,
you'll have a new baby.
(splattering)
Look, milk.
It was meant for her
foal, that's ever so sad.
If you want, you can
give it to us instead.
(sniffing)
- She's our horse now,
we must give her a name.
What do you think
she should be called?
- Lia.
How about Lia?
That's a great name for her.
Mattis once told me that he
had a mare with that name
when he was a boy.
- Mmm, Lia huh?
I like that name.
Lia.
(lively chiming music)
(lively flute music)
- It's a pity that
we lost our knife.
(lively music)
(gulping)
(gasps)
(lively flute music)
- [Birk] But, it's a good
thing we found it again.
- Huh?
- While we were arguin' and
bein' mean to each other,
it was right there all the time
just waiting for us to find it.
(lively flute music)
- Brother, I've been thinking,
ever since we had that fight,
it's silly, so before
we have another one,
let's make sure that it's
an argument worth having.
Don't you think so?
- Well in that case,
we'll have to make sure
to avoid any
pointless arguments.
But Ronja, do you know
what I was thinking
just after you ran away?
- Hmm?
- I'll tell you.
I realized you're worth more
to me than a 1,000 knives.
- Hmm.
You know, Birk Borkason,
I honestly think
you're about as
crazy as they come.
(laughing)
- [Narrator] When they
recalled that Lovis
sometimes said this to
Mattis, it made them laugh
and they couldn't stop
laughing for quite some time.
(laughing)
(bouncy folk music)
Next time, on Ronja,
the Robber's Daughter.
(bouncy, energetic folk music)
"With the Wild Horses".
Don't miss it.
(lively, bouncy music)
(chiming)
(lively acoustic strumming)